Add sections on security levels and tiering (#153)
sa-tre/satre-specification: docs/source/pillars/data_management.md

  - Regulatory frameworks such as GDPR emphasise the need for physical security controls to protect sensitive data. Compliance with these regulations could require organisations to implement specific physical security measures to safeguard their TRE from unauthorised access.
  - Optional
```

(security-level)=

## Security levels and tiering

_The ability of the TRE deployment software (or active TRE) to configure security controls appropriate to the sensitivity of the data used in a project or workspace._

> Each security control employed by a TRE adds a bit of friction to the user experience. With a one-size-fits-all approach, TREs force all projects to use the security requirements for the most sensitive data that is handled:

Reviewer: Changed necessary -> unnecessary :)

```{list-table}
:header-rows: 1
:name: tab-security-level

* - Statement
  - Guidance
  - Importance

> * - You must be able to specify exactly what level of security your TRE is able to support

Reviewer: Are we actually trying to say something like "You must be able to specify what categories of data your TRE is able to support." or is it something like "You must be able to specify what security controls your TRE is able to apply."

It's probably the first one, really, but that might not be up to the TRE operator to decide (eg. they might think that they're able to hold personal data but the data provider may not agree). What about the second phrasing?

> * - You must be able to specify exactly what level of security your TRE is able to support

Reviewer 2: The former would then raise the question of what categories of data exist and how do we define them. Fine if we refer to something with legal standing, I guess, like based on GDPR, but in general they're not standardised. Then we'd have to define what level of security/what security controls are necessary to hold those categories of data, and then we'd be back to doing more like that latter phrasing (stating what controls can be applied).

> * - You must be able to specify exactly what level of security your TRE is able to support

Reviewer: Is it just:

```suggestion
* - You must be able to specify what security tiers your TRE is able to support
```

with an extra explanatory sentence in the intro sentence above (see my suggestion there).

> * - You must be able to specify exactly what level of security your TRE is able to support

Reviewer 3: No, I think it _cannot_ use the word tiers because the use of security tiers is another non-mandatory component.

> * - You must be able to specify exactly what level of security your TRE is able to support

Reviewer 4: Is it maybe just being able to articulate and specify what your TRE can/can't do - so any potential projects fully understand any data security implications/considerations

> * - You must be able to specify exactly what level of security your TRE is able to support

Reviewer 3: @harisood Yes something like that. I would say,

- It is about security in particular
- It is about what the _TRE organisation_ is comfortable with

For example, you should be upfront in saying your TRE isn't suitable for identifiable medical data, or data which might attract stake-backed attackers.

> * - You must be able to specify exactly what level of security your TRE is able to support

Reviewer 5: > Is it maybe just being able to articulate and specify what your TRE can/can't do - so any potential projects fully understand any data security implications/considerations

How much of this is already covered by SATRE capabilities? If a TRE indicates which of the recommended and optional SATRE capabilities are fulfills, what additional information is needed for data governors to decide whether it's secure enough for their data?

> * - You must be able to specify exactly what level of security your TRE is able to support

Reviewer 3: > How much of this is already covered by SATRE capabilities? If a TRE indicates which of the recommended and optional SATRE capabilities are fulfills, what additional information is needed for data governors to decide whether it's secure enough for their data?

I would guess a fair bit, or at least looking at how a TRE compares to the specification might not be that useful in answering just the security question. There are capabilities covering many aspects of a TRE which could dilute the useful information, such as cost management or use of infrastructure as code.

I feel we are writing the specification to outline what is (and isn't) a TRE, recognising the diversity of TRE architectures and applications. I'm not confident we would be able to keep to that while also being able to produce some sort of score for how secure a TRE is.

> * - You must be able to specify exactly what level of security your TRE is able to support

Reviewer 3: No strong objections here, so updated based on this discussion in [40eee70](https://github.com/sa-tre/satre-specification/pull/153/commits/40eee70915bd028fc6ba2ed321f31d6ca6628ec8) to focus on 'kinds of data' rather than 'level of security'.

>   - Security controls employed by a TRE should be documented and explainable in a manner that is interpretable by people from different technical backgrounds and experience levels, in particular data providers and project teams, including those working directly with the data.

Reviewer: How about:

```suggestion
  - Your TRE must provide an explanation of its security capabilities that can be understood by all stakeholders.
  - Relevant stakeholders may include data providers and project teams and they may have different levels of technical expertise.
```

>   - Security controls employed by a TRE should be documented and explainable in a manner that is interpretable by people from different technical backgrounds and experience levels, in particular data providers and project teams, including those working directly with the data.

Reviewer 3: Fixed in [8245b79](https://github.com/sa-tre/satre-specification/pull/153/commits/8245b797d8894d5a9b9280e7f4e19f6f69a40c82)

  - Mandatory

> * - TREs should support data of different levels of sensitivity, via variable and configurable security controls

Reviewer: Agree it is projects. Is it "should" or "should be able to" though?

> * - TREs should support data of different levels of sensitivity, via variable and configurable security controls

Reviewer 3: Should be able to :+1:.

  - Optional
```

(security-level)=

## Security levels and tiering

_The ability of the TRE deployment software (or active TRE) to configure security controls appropriate to the sensitivity of the data used in a project or workspace._

Security controls can add friction to the user experience and hinder work.
A one-size-fits-all approach forces all projects to use the strictest security configuration even when that is unnecessary.
Throughout the rest of this document, we will refer to each pre-defined security configuration supported by a particular TRE as a "security tier".

```{list-table}
:header-rows: 1
:name: tab-security-level

* - Statement
  - Guidance
  - Importance
* - You must be able to specify what categories of data your TRE is able to support.
  - Your TRE must provide an explanation of the kinds of data it has been designed to hold, with reference to its security capabilities, that can be understood by all stakeholders.
    Relevant stakeholders may include data providers and project teams and they may have different levels of technical expertise.
  - Mandatory

> * - Your TRE should be able to support projects with differing security requirements through  configurable security controls.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* - Your TRE could support projects with differing security requirements through configurable security controls.
```

  - This allows projects with different security requirements to each be met with a suitable level of controls.
    It helps ensure that users can work effectively, with minimal barriers.

>   - Recommended

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  - Optional
```
I reckon this should be optional. It makes sense for a TRE implementation to support different tiers, but not necessarily for a TRE deployment, especially if that deployment only ever deals with one type of data.

Reviewer: Happy for this to be optional, but we also need to change "should" -> "could" in that case.
